04 - Networking in Linux/Firewalls.md, before:

Certainly! Let's explore how to manage firewalls in **Linux Mint** using the terminal. There are a couple of options available:

## 1. **UFW (Uncomplicated Firewall)**:
   - UFW is a straightforward and reliable firewall interface with both command-line and graphical tools.
   - To install UFW, open the terminal and run:
     ```
     sudo apt install ufw
     ```
   - Verify if UFW is active with:
     ```
     sudo systemctl status ufw
     ```
   - To allow specific ports (e.g., OpenSSH), use:
     ```
     sudo ufw allow 22/tcp
     ```
   - To disable a port, run:
     ```
     sudo ufw deny 22/tcp
     ```

2. **Gufw (GUI for UFW)**:
   - Gufw provides a graphical interface for managing UFW.
   - Install it with:
     ```
     sudo apt install gufw
     ```
   - Open it from the menu: "Firewall Configuration."

Remember, firewalls protect your network by filtering traffic based on predefined rules. Choose the method that suits your preference! 😊🔥

Source: Conversation with Copilot, 7/12/2024
- [(1) How to open a firewall on Linux Mint | FOSS Linux.](https://www.fosslinux.com/50961/open-a-firewall-on-linux-mint.htm.)
- [(2) Linux Mint - Community.](https://community.linuxmint.com/tutorial/view/1899.)
- [(3) LINUX Firewall - GeeksforGeeks.](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/linux-firewall/.)
- [(4) firewalld-cmd Command in Linux: 24 Examples.](https://linuxhandbook.com/firewalld-cmd/.)

Commit message:

Added info for Opening Plex Media Server Port in Gufw Firewall.

04 - Networking in Linux/Firewalls.md, after:

Certainly! Let's explore how to manage firewalls in **Linux Mint** using the terminal. There are a couple of options available:

## 1. **UFW (Uncomplicated Firewall)**:
   - UFW is a straightforward and reliable firewall interface with both command-line and graphical tools.
   - To install UFW, open the terminal and run:
     ```
     sudo apt install ufw
     ```
   - Verify if UFW is active with:
     ```
     sudo systemctl status ufw
     ```
   - To allow specific ports (e.g., OpenSSH), use:
     ```
     sudo ufw allow 22/tcp
     ```
   - To disable a port, run:
     ```
     sudo ufw deny 22/tcp
     ```

2. **Gufw (GUI for UFW)**:
   - Gufw provides a graphical interface for managing UFW.
   - Install it with:
     ```
     sudo apt install gufw
     ```
   - Open it from the menu: "Firewall Configuration."
   - For example: In Firewall configuration make sure Port TCP:32400 is open for Plex Server.

Remember, firewalls protect your network by filtering traffic based on predefined rules. Choose the method that suits your preference! 😊🔥

Source: Conversation with Copilot, 7/12/2024
- [(1) How to open a firewall on Linux Mint | FOSS Linux.](https://www.fosslinux.com/50961/open-a-firewall-on-linux-mint.htm.)
- [(2) Linux Mint - Community.](https://community.linuxmint.com/tutorial/view/1899.)
- [(3) LINUX Firewall - GeeksforGeeks.](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/linux-firewall/.)
- [(4) firewalld-cmd Command in Linux: 24 Examples.](https://linuxhandbook.com/firewalld-cmd/.)
